# multiprocessor-

قائمة
An introduction to operating systemAlfeim2021-09-14postsتحرير"An introduction to operating system"
What is an operating system? You have probably had seen the black screen, that old fashioned computers were launched with, withier if that was on popular culture like in movies, or even the screen that programmers during 50s were working with, and that’s exactly what we are about to talk about on this article.

Operating systems in a simple word is the software, or the program that works as an intermediary between the hardware and the user, and allocates, or manages the resources of the computer namely the components of the hardware, the memory, the CPU, the I/O devices, etc.

But what exactly is operating system is good for? The advantage of using an operating system mainly depends on the user’s point of view; hence if I was a single user, I would like to have a convenient ease of use, without being occupied with the resource utilization of the device that I’m using.

 As for several users, on a workstation for example, who are using shared networks, files, and resources, such as the printer network for example. As the use of the operating system for the users at a workstation, an operating system is designed to compromises between individual usability, and the resource utilization (software, hardware, etc.)

As the work of an operating system is intermediate between the hardware, and the user, it’s better to have a look, or an overview about the components of the hardware, that the operating system managed from the first place.

Computer system organization

The organization, or the structure of a computer can be divided into four components:

– Hardware, that contains CPU, the memory, the I/O devices, etc.

– The operating system

– The application programs

– The users of the computer (people, services, computers, etc.)

The computer architecture, or the hardware components of a computer plays a huge role on impacting how the operating system functions, and thus understanding its fundamental is an essential concept to better understand how operating system interact between the hardware and the user.

– The central processing unit structure

– Interrupts

– The I/O structure

– The storage structures  

The central processing unit (CPU) structure

The central processing unit, shortly known as (CPU), is the main components that is responsible for managing, executing, and running all the instructions, or the registers from the I/O devices, or due to the signals that the interrupt is triggering the CPU with, and the role of the interrupts will be just explained.

Just as the human brain, that is made by clusters of certain nerve cells, that is responsible for certain functionalities. Within the CPU, there’s also specific location named the core, there where all the calculations, and the computation on the registers and the set of instructions is executing, throughout the logical arithmetic unit (LAU), where all the proposal logic happens.

As for a simpler organized mammals that have a simple nerve system to help them manages their task. On computer, a single-processing systems is a system that has one CPU, and one core to execute instructions.

As for more complex structured mammals as the human brain for example, which has two lobes of the brain, certain complex computer systems also have a dual-core design, which is a type of multiprocessing system that uses two or more cores.

Interrupts  

What’s the common thing between those two cases, say for example you press Ctrl+Alt+Delete, and now your computer freezes, and stops everything that was running to provide you with a page that you can access the task manager with it, but what exactly what happened? The other case is, if you’ve had plugged a USB into your computer, and there was a notification, or a message pupping asking you what’s the option you would like to take to deal with this USB, as to scan it, or open its content.

The common thing between these two cases that this is exactly the rule of the interrupt, as it plays an essential role on the computer architecture. Interrupts are events that alert (or interrupt) the normal flow of the execution of the system.

As for the 1st case of pressing Ctrl+Alt+Delete, it’s a form of software interrupts, that was generated by the software, when there’s a system call that changes the control from the user to the kernel. As for 2nd case, it’s an external interrupt that works with the I/O requests.

The I/O structure

On thermodynamic laws, an open system, in known to be a system that
can exchange both energy and matter with its surroundings. Just like the I/O subsystems that works on exchanging data, in and out from the user to the hardware. The exchange of the date happens through the local buffers, which are mostly circuits or wires that stores the data temporary until it reaches its last destination, to the CPU, then to the local memory.  

The storage structures  

Just as the human brain which has two kinds of memory, a short memory and anther long term memory. Modern computer applies the same kind of structure when it comes to the storage, a storage or a memory that is for the short-term data to be temporally saved, that named as Random-Access Memory (RAM) and the other one which saves data for long period of time, which named as the main, or secondary storage.  Just as how the priority of certain data that human can upgrade, from being a random data, to a more relative, and more accessible one, that is more relative to the human cognitively, a similar concept is applied as one in storage structures that named Cache, which means that the data is transferred from a slower storage to another faster storage.

الإعلاناتفي بعض الأحيان، قد يرى بعض من الزائرين إعلانًا هنا،
بالإضافة إلى شعار الخصوصية وملفات الارتباط في أسفل الصفحة.
يمكنك إخفاء هذه الإعلانات تمامًا عن طريق الترقية إلى واحدة من الخطط المدفوعة لدينا.

قم بالترقية الآن استبعاد الرسالة

bus،cache،computer architecture،computer organizations،core،cpu،data،daul prosser،events،freezing،Hardware،i/o subsystem،interrupt،Linux،local buffers،memories،movies،multicore،multiprocessor،open system،operating systems،single processor،storage،thermodynamics،tolerance fault،trapsتحرير"An introduction to operating system"
شارك هذا الموضوع:نشر
تويتر
فيس بوك
تخصيص الأزرار

مرتبطNick Cave, the aesthetic of Gothicism, spirituality, and darkness2021-03-09
Hunger Makes Me a Modern Girl, Carrie Brownstein: between misfiting, and self-actualization2021-06-03
The Song Of Sea And Space: Children Of The Sea2020-05-15
التنقل بين المواضيعالسابق
نُشر بواسطة Alfeim
عرض كل المقالات حسبAlfeim

اترك تعليقًامتّصل بالاسم Alfeim. تسجيل الخروج؟

تعليق

 أبلغني بالتعليقات الجديدة عبر البريد الإلكتروني.

إحصائيات المدونة9٬078 hits
ابحث عن: 
المدونة على ووردبريس.كوم.
